#Substitution Model

##Types of Things Seen
Numbers
Symbols
lambda expressions
definitions
conditionals
combinations

##Combinations - Substitution Rule 

To evaluate an application
    Evaluate the operator to get procedure
    Evaluate the operands to get arguments
    Apply the procedure to the arguments
        Copy body of procedure
            substituting the arguments supplied
            for the formal parameters of the procedure
        Evaluate resulting new body

##Example
(define (square x) (* x x))

(define (sos x y)
  (+ (square x) (square y)))

(sos (+ 5 1) (+ 5 2))
(sos 6 7)
(+ (square 6) (square 7))
(+ (* 6 6) (* 7 7))
(+ 36 49)
85


##Normal-Order vs Applicative Order 

The above rule for scheme is an applicative order substitution rule. A different approach would be to first substitute the operand expressions for parameters, and only then evaluate the operands.

(sos (+ 5 1) (+ 5 2))
(+ (square (+ 5 1)) (square (+ 5 2)))
(+ (* (+ 5 1) (+ 5 1)) (* (+ 5 2) (+ 5 2)))
(+ (* 6 6) (* 7 7))
(+ 36 49)
85

##Call by name, Call by value, Call by need

Applicative order evaluation of parameters is also called 'Call by value'. This is used by most languages as the default.

Normal order evaluation is called 'Call by Name'. However, Normal Order can also be implemented using memoization - this ensures that each block is evaluated only once. In the expansion above - you see that (+ 5 1) and (+ 5 2) blocks are evaluated twice :

    (+ (* (+ 5 1) (+ 5 1)) (* (+ 5 2) (+ 5 2)))

With memoization, each block would be evaluated once only, when first used. This reduces the number of computations. This type of memoization of normal order evaluation is called 'call by need'.

Haskell - call-by-need
Scala - call-by-value by default, but supports call-by-need
ALGOL - call-by-name

#Local names, Scope

Names for formal parameters are local to the procedure. 
We say a formal parameter is a bound variable, and a procedure definition binds its formal parameters. The definition of the procedure is unchanged if the name of bound variable is changed consistently (this is harder than it may seem).

The set of bindings for which the binding defines a name is called the scope of that name. In a procedure, formal parameters have the body of the procedure declared as scope.

An variable that is not bound is set to be free.



