Art of being creative is being able to visualize what will happen before you do something for example taking a picture.

##Type of Process - Iteration

Peano Arithmetic procedure results in an iterative process.

time - order(x)
space - constant

    (define (pred x) (- x 1))
    (define (succ x) (+ x 1))

    (define (p+ x y)
        (if (= x 0)
            y
            (p+ (pred x) (succ y))))

See the behaviour of +

    (p+ 3 4)
    (p+ 2 5)
    (p+ 1 6)
    (p+ 0 7)
    7

An iteration has all the state it needs to continue in its variables explicitly.

##Type of Process - Recursion - Linear Recursion
    (define (pred x) (- x 1))

    (define (p+ x y)
        (if (= x 0)
            y
            (+ 1 (p+ (pred x) y))))

    (p+ 3 4)
    (+ 1 (p+ 2 4))
    (+ 1 (+1 (p+ 1 4)))
    (+ 1 (+1 (1+ (p+ 0 5))))
    (+ 1 (+1 (1+ 4))
    (+ 1 (+1 5))
    (+ 1 6)
    7

time - order(x)
space - order(x)

A recursion has state captured in deferred computation. To resume requires knowing state of variables as well as the state of the computation.

##Iterative Process, Recursive Procedure
Definition is recursive in both cases.
Type of process is not the same.

##Tail Recursion and Iterative Loop Structures
The absence of tail recursion in many languages results in space taken by procedures increasing as procedures are called even for a purely iterative process. 

Such languages need specialised looping constructs such as do, repeat, until, for and while. 

A tail-recursive implementation (as in Scheme and some other languages), results in an efficient implementation, and special constructs just become syntactic sugar.

##Tree Recursion

###Fibonacci Numbers

Recursive process

    (define (fib n)
        (cond   ((= n 0) 0)
                ((= n 1) 1)
                ((> n 1) (+ (fib (- n 1)) (fib (- n 2))))))

Has Fib(n+1) leaves. Fib(n) proportional to phi^n, where phi is the golden ratio. So this has exponential complexity.

Iterative Process

    (define fibi n)
        (define (iter a b count)
            if (= count 0)
               b
               (iter (+ a b) a (- count 1))
        (iter 1 0 n)

This is linear in n.

The difference is the amount of redundant computation in the recursive process. The same computations are repeated again and again, leading to exponential growth in calculation.

###Counting Change
Count number of ways to change 1 Rs, using 50,25,10,5,1 paise respectively.

Recursive procedure pseudo-code

    count-change(amount, largest-denom)
        if amount = 0 then 1
        else if (amount < 0) or (largest-denom is 0) then 0
        else 
            count-change(amount-largest-denom, largest-denom) +
            count-change(amount,next-denom(largest-denom))

next-denom - given a coin of one denomination, returns the next highest coin.

Again, this has very high complexity, exponential in fact. And again, number of repeated calculations are huge.





